Hello, I mean this course is made for
anybody but who I think I have content
in this course for types of people that
I think will get the most out of it.
So I think anybody with little to no
experience using Chrome DevTools,
I hope to be able to walk you through each
panel, what they do what they're good for,
all that stuff.
Probably when I pull people the most
common group that I get are people who
have used the Network and
the Console panel before.
They console log stuff,
they've checked it or
they've looked at the network overview and
they have seen what comes in.
But they've really never clicked
on any of the other panels before.
Maybe they clicked on it and it seemed
overwhelming so they clicked away from it.
So I'm hoping this will be a really
nice introduction to the rest of those
panels as well as learning a lot
more about network and console.
And the third group is people that
are comfortable with the panels, but
working to learn some tips and tricks.
One thing I always love, I love
keyboard shortcuts, I love experiments,
I love little known things, little
things that I pick up along the way.
So all my workshops that I do,
I try to fill with as many little tips and
tricks sections as possible.
Cuz I find them just really fun and
they kinda help me speed up.
All right, so now we'll move into the next
lesson, which is what can the DevTools do?
And so this lesson really we're
just gonna go through each one.
And we're gonna start playing around
with them on a very high level, but
just seeing some actual stuff
that we can do with the DevTools.
And then we'll get down
into the course format for
the rest of the course afterwards.
So I kinda have two things I wanna
point out before we go into it.
One is a little bit about not
feeling overwhelmed with stuff.
I find a lot of times when I sit
through workshops, there's so
much incredible information.
And sometimes I start getting a little bit
stressed that I'm not gonna be able to
retain all of it, right?
I'm like, I gotta remember that,
and that, and that, and that.
So if I were to give you advice,
I would say that I think it's
more important to know what they can do,
then how they can do it.
Cuz if you know what they can do, you can
come back to this Frontend Masters course, or
you can look at the Docs or
you can even just look at the DevTools and
try to figure it out for yourself.
So if I were to ask for one big takeaway,
it would be only just try to remember I've
seen DevTools can do this really cool CPU
thing now I know exactly how
to read a flame graph, right?
Those are kind of differences.
And the other one, which is something we
were talking about a little bit earlier,
is that the Chrome extensions like plugins
that you add to your browser can and
often do mess with DevTools
data because they can and
often do mess with how you
actually render websites.
And this can lead to really
inaccurate reporting.
And this has bitten me a lot
of times at work before.
So my suggestion is,
if you're doing something important,
like you're auditing a customer's website,
or you're trying to find if there's
a memory leak on your page,
I would either go ahead and
disable all of your extensions, which you
can do up at this window extensions tab.
Or just open a new incognito window for
the site that you're viewing,
incognito windows by default
have the extensions turned off.
So I think that's always a good tip
because there's a lot of stuff going on
with these Chrome plugins that you might
see new scripts being added to the DOM.
You might see network requests being
rejected or new network requests,
all sorts of stuff that can be really
tricky to figure out why it's happening.
And it's often just a Chrome
extension that you have.
Awesome.
All right, so let's begin with
walking through the panels.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
I'm gonna open the DevTools.
And we're gonna kinda go down this little
list of high level things, and we'll just
play with a little example of them so
we can kind of see them visually happen.
So the first panel is the elements panel.
And I guess actually, before I go into
each panel, it should be worth noting that
these tabs can be dragged and dropped, and
they persist in whatever order they're in.
So if you see yours in
a different order than mine,
it's probably just because I've dragged
mine around, nothing to worry about.
You can drag these around
until whatever order you want.
But on the website is the order that
I'm gonna be going through them in.
Cool, so the Elements panel.
So again, you're able to play
with all the HTML and CSS.
I find it's really interesting when in
doubt, try double clicking something cuz
it's really interesting what
you can interact with here.
So for example, some things might be
more obvious like we can go ahead and
take the body element here,
and I'll click on it.
And we can kind of scroll through
all the CSS that applies to it.
And so, we could do things like you
can see the background color is gray.
So I could change the background color to
red and in real time the background of
the website will update or
purple, something like that.
You can also change
the actual property though.
So, instead of background color,
you could change it to color entirely.
And now you'll see this is getting
crossed out because there's two colors.
But I would say always try
double clicking on stuff.
You can even double click
on the selector itself.
So if we set this back
to background color, and
I'll go through this auto select here,
and that's purple,
we could change this from body to div,
something like that.
And now you see the body has gone
back to being its default color but
every div on my site is now purple.
And so there's a lot of different
stuff that you can double click on.
Another one that surprises me the first
time was that if you take an element over
here, like let's say this h1,
let me scroll up a little bit so
we can view it together.
This is this title element
that says lesson 2 here.
You can even double click
on the element itself.
And so
you can change it from an h1 into an h2.
So there's two cool things here,
one that you can edit the HTML.
But two, if you notice over here,
I know it's quite subtle, but
If you change an opening tag,
Chrome DevTools will automatically
change the closing tag for you.
So you can just change the opening to
an h2 and hit Enter and there we go,
it gets smaller.
So I'll change this back to an h1, and
we'll scroll back down to the lesson.
You can also change classes and IDs.
Again, the thing that might be
more obvious you can see here
we have an article with ID of main.
The thing that might be more obvious is
that we can change the ID from main to app
or something like that.
And you can see that explodes a lot of the
CSS cuz I was using main as a selector.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
set it back to main.
But the thing that might be less obvious
is that you can actually double click on
the ID portion itself and change it to
maybe a class name of main instead,
which still breaks because
my CSS is looking for an ID.
So pretty much everything in here is
double clickable, which is really cool.
You can also do things like,
we saw that you can update these styles.
But you can also do a lot
of cool things for example,
you can add a brand new style so
we can click on this plus sign over here.
This is on the right sidebar.
And we can create a new style rule.
And so, if we had one, we wanted to
be more specific than, ID of main,
we could do the default
one is article of main.
And so you can see whichever thing you've
clicked on when you click new style,
it kinda tries to pull a very
specific selector for you.
But you can put anything you want in here,
like class of foo or something like that.
These are also drag and droppable.
So if you grab on to one of these like
the h3, you can move it above the h1.
And that will see back up here
my course is now out of order.
The h1 down here and the h3 over here.
Yeah, so I finally have done like
a really good job of making this page,
sort of like Apple does with their
products where it's pretty intuitive or
like the thing you'd wanna do.
I would just give it a try.
[LAUGH] Always give it a try if you wanna
make a new selector, drag stuff around,
move it anything like that.
Cool, and we'll get into a bunch
more stuff cuz the elements tab can
do amazing things later, but
that's kind of the high level view.
The Network tab.
So this one, the basic idea is
if you go to the network tab and
then you refresh your page when you're
on it, the probably most common
thing that we do and let me hide
a bunch of this other stuff for now,
is we look at the stack
of all requests sent.
And so this is pretty cool.
It's basically if you think about
how a webpage works, right?
You hit the server and the server
always gives you an index.html, right?
Or whatever, a file name.html.
It's always the beginning, right?
Because HTML is what we need for
the very first request.
So always see the top one
here being an HTML or
they call it document type over here.
And if you click on it,
you can actually see what the response is.
I do have inline styles which might
be a little bit confusing, but
this is an HTML file.
And then what it will do is it'll
walk this file and it's looking for
any references to external resources,
right?
So when we do HTML, we often put links
to CSS or script tags to JavaScript.
Those are two very common things we do.
We also put image tags, right?
And so as it's walking this, it'll say
every time it's like, you need a CSS file,
it'll go out and it'll fetch that.
And so you can kinda see the network
sort of works that way where it fetches
the document, it reads through it,
eventually it sees that
I'm linking to a script.
So it goes out and fetches that script.
This is called prism.js I use it for
my code snippet styling.
And then it'll keep reading and
keep reading and
then eventually it gets to a font tag.
I use a custom font in here, so
it goes out and fetches that.
So yeah, this is basically in order
every request that was sent, and
a bunch of cool information about it,
like the http status, who initiated it,
what type it is, how big it is,
how long it took all sorts of great stuff.
And we'll get into some
really cool ways that you can
actually diagnose a lot of really
cool things including server issues,
all from the network panel the DevTools
when we cover that in the network section.
So yeah, you can measure all
sorts of page load stuff, so
you can look at how long each file took.
But you can also look down here
at these really important events.
So when we use a tool like Google's
Lighthouse, which we'll cover later or
web page test, any sort of tool to
measure the speed of our website.
The two events that
it's always looking for
like when did DOMContentLoaded fire and
when did Onload fire.
And so those are both built right
into the DevTools here where
you can see when they fired.
You can also watch your
site load in real time.
This is like a lesser known
thing that they offer.
So if you click this setting cog up here,
not the top one for all Devtools, but
this one over here for network settings
you can do capture screenshots.
And then if you refresh again with capture
screenshots, you can actually see when we
audit sites later we will actually be able
to watch the HTML come in unstyled, and
then an image load and then a font
come in and restyle everything.
So we'll actually be able to see kind
of all that stuff happen in real time.
So these are the screenshots
of the site loading.
And then we're able to inspect request and
response data.
So when you're working with JavaScript,
and especially when you're working with
API's, so if you're at work or
if you're doing a side project and
working with some API especially when
it's not working, they'll often ask for
data about the headers sent
either by the API or to the API.
And so if we take like this request for
prism.js, and
instead of looking at the response,
I'm gonna make this a little taller.
We go over here and we look at the
headers, we can get a lot of information
from it, so you can see what response
headers were sent down from the server.
And you can see what headers
you sent in your fact requests.
These are gonna be the default ones,
cuz it's just a script source.
But this comes in really handy where
oftentimes at a job your service
will have some kind of request ID,
some way of identifying it.
And the service team will often ask you
for that ID, because they wanna be able to
look it up in their logs and
see what went wrong, something like that.
So that's a really common
example I face where I say, hey,
this user status API is broken.
And they're like, well, can you give me
an example request and I give it to them.
And they're like, okay, well,
can you give me your request ID.
So then I come into the DevTools,
I refresh and I look for
the request ID header.
So that happens a lot.